Add code change guide contributor-doc (#30879)
apache/beam: contributor-docs/code-change-guide.md

  * Needed for all development as Beam is a Gradle project (which uses JVM)
  * Recommended: Use [sdkman]((https://sdkman.io/install)) to manage Java versions
* A Python environment (any supported Python version)
  * Needed for Python SDK development
  * Recommended: Use [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
    [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to manage Python versions
* A Go environment. Install the latest Go
  * Needed for Go SDK development and SDK container change (for all SDKs), as
  the container entrypoint scripts are written in Go.
* A docker environment.
  * Needed for SDK container change, some cross-language functionality (if run a
    SDK container image), portable runners (using job server), etc

For example
- testing the code change in `sdks/java/io/google-cloud-platform`: need a Java environment
- testing the code change in `sdks/java/harness`: need a Java environment, a Go
  environment and Docker environment (to compile and build Java SDK harness container image)
- testing the code change in `sdks/python/apache_beam`: need a Python environment

# Java Guide

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides guidance for setting up your Java environment.
```

> ## IDE (IntelliJ) Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## IDE (IntelliJ) setup
```

> 1. From IntelliJ, open `/beam` (**Important** repository root dir, instead of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From IntelliJ, open `/beam` (**Important:** Open the repository root directory, instead of
```

be a "Run" button besides wordCount task. Click the button, it should compile
and run the wordCount example.

<img width="631" alt="image" src="https://github.com/apache/beam/assets/8010435/f5203e8e-0f9c-4eaa-895b-e16f68a808a2">

**Note** IDE is not required for changing the code and testing. Again, as a
Gradle project, tests can be executed via a Gradle command line, see below.

## Console (shell) setup

Equivalent command line:

```shell
$ cd beam
$ ./gradlew :examples:java:wordCount
```

Upon finishing, one should see the following Gradle build log:

```
...
BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 2m 32s
96 actionable tasks: 9 executed, 87 up-to-date
3:41:06 PM: Execution finished 'wordCount'.
```

and checking the output file:

```shell

$ head /tmp/output.txt*
==> /tmp/output.txt-00000-of-00003 <==
should: 38
bites: 1
depraved: 1
gauntlet: 1
battle: 6
sith: 2
cools: 1
natures: 1
hedge: 1
words: 9

==> /tmp/output.txt-00001-of-00003 <==
elements: 1
Advise: 2
fearful: 2
towards: 4
ready: 8
pared: 1
left: 8
safe: 4
canst: 7
warrant: 2

==> /tmp/output.txt-00002-of-00003 <==
chanced: 1
...
```

*What does this command do?*

> It compiles the beam SDK and the word count pipeline (Hello-world program for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command compiles the beam SDK and the WordCount pipeline, a Hello-world program for
```

data processing), then run the pipeline on Direct Runner.

## Run a unit test

Now, suppose you have made a code change in Java SDK (e.g. in `sdks/java/io/jdbc`),

> and want to run relevant unit tests locally to verify the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Unit tests are under `src/test/java` folder of each project with filename `.../**Test.java` for unit tests and, `.../**IT.java` for integration tests. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests are under the `src/test/java` folder of each project. Unit tests have the filename `.../**Test.java`. Integration tests have the filename `.../**IT.java` for integration tests.
```

* Run all unit tests under a project
  ```
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test
  ```
  Then JUnit report (in html web page) can be found under `<invoked_project>/build/reports/tests/test/index.html`

* Run a specific test
  ```
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests org.apache.beam.fn.harness.CachesTest
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests *CachesTest
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests *CachesTest.testClearableCache
  ```

* Run a specific test with IntelliJ
  <img width="452" alt="image" src="https://github.com/apache/beam/assets/8010435/7ae2a65c-a104-48a2-8bad-ff8c52dd1943">
  Just click the ticks to run a whole test class or a specific test. One can also set breakpoints and debug the test.

> * Exception: `sdks:java:core`. Many unit tests are invoked by task  `:runners:direct-java:needsRunnerTest` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* These steps don't apply to `sdks:java:core` tests. Instead, invoke the unit tests by using `:runners:direct-java:needsRunnerTest`. Java core doesn't depend on a runner. Therefore, unit tests that run a pipeline require the Direct Runner.
```

  Reason: Java core does not depend on a runner. For unit test that executes a pipeline, it needs direct runner.

> * Run an integration test on direct runner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run integration tests, use the Direct Runner.
```

## Run an integration test (*IT.java)

An integration test uses `TestPipeline` where its option is set by `TestPipelineOptions` ([code path](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/core/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/testing/TestPipeline.java))

Differences from normal Pipeline:
* Block on run (on TestDataflowRunner) by default
* Has a default timeout (15 min)
* Pipeline options set in System property `beamTestPipelineOptions`

> The last point is important: the test is configured by setting `-DbeamTestPipelineOptions=[...]`, including which runner it will be run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the final different, because you need to configure the test by setting `-DbeamTestPipelineOptions=[...]`. This property is where you set the runner to use.
```

Example command line, presenting a minimum option needed for running on Dataflow runner:
```
-DbeamTestPipelineOptions='["--runner=TestDataflowRunner","--project=mygcpproject","--region=us-central1","--stagingLocation=gs://mygcsbucket/path"]'
```

### Write an integration test

> * Setup a TestPipeline in an integration test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To set up a `TestPipeline` object in an integration test, use the following code:
```

  ```java

  @Rule public TestPipeline pipelineWrite = TestPipeline.create();

  @Test
  public void testSomething() {
    pipeline.apply(...);

    pipeline.run().waitUntilFinish();
  }
  ```

* It is up to the task that runs the test to specify the runner. Common entries:

>   * `:sdks:java:io:google-cloud-platform:integrationTest` run GCP IO integration test on direct runner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * To run a Google Cloud I/O integration test on the Direct Runner, use `:sdks:java:io:google-cloud-platform:integrationTest`
```

  * `:runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:googleCloudPlatformLegacyWorkerIntegrationTest` run integration tests on Dataflow Legacy runner: * `:runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:googleCloudPlatformRunnerV2IntegrationTest` run integration test on Dataflow runner v2

In general, Refer to the gradle command that the GHA workflow runs to find how to run it locally.

Example invocation:
```
./gradlew :runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:examplesJavaRunnerV2IntegrationTest \
-PdisableSpotlessCheck=true -PdisableCheckStyle=true -PskipCheckerFramework \
-PgcpProject=<your_gcp_project> -PgcpRegion=us-central1 \
-PgcsTempRoot=gs://<your_gcs_bucket>/tmp
```

## Run your pipeline with modified beam code

Depending on the purpose, it is recommended to start with different branch to apply your code change:

* If making a pull request, or want to test a change with dev branch---start from Beam HEAD ([master](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master)).

* If making a patch on released Beam (2.xx.0), start from tag (e.g. [v2.55.0](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/v2.55.0))

> Then,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Under beam repo: Compile the project involving the code change with (e.g. if modified sdks/java/io/kafka)
  ```
  ./gradlew -Ppublishing -p sdks/java/io/kafka publishToMavenLocal
  ```

>   This will publish the artifact with modified code to Maven Local repository (~/.m2/repository) by default, and it **will be picked up when executing user pipeline**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, this command publishes the artifact with modified code to the  Maven Local repository (`~/.m2/repository`). The change is picked up when the user pipeline executes.
```

If your code change is made on dev branches (like on beam master, or a PR), instead on a release tag, this will produce an artifact under version `2.xx.0-SNAPSHOT`. Additional configs need to be done in **your pipeline project**, in order to pick up this dependency:

* For Maven Project

>   1. (Recommended) Use wordcount maven-archetype as Template to setup your project (https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-java/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Recommended: Use the WordCount `maven-archetype` as a template to set up your project (https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-java/).
```

  2. Add snapshot repository
    ```xml
    <repository>
      <id>Maven-Snapshot</id>
      <name>maven snapshot repository</name>
      <url>https://repository.apache.org/content/groups/snapshots/</url>
    </repository>
  3. Modify beam.version in pom.xml
    ```xml
    <properties>
    <beam.version>2.XX.0-SNAPSHOT</beam.version>
    ```

* For Gradle Project
  1. in build.gradle, add
    ```groovy
    repositories {
    maven { url "https://repository.apache.org/content/groups/snapshots" }
    }
    ```
  2. set the beam dependency versions to be `2.XX.0-SNAPSHOT`

This config directs the build system to download Beam NIGHTLY builds from Maven Snapshot Repository other than the one built locally (the one you just made change), so you don't need to build all Beam artifacts locally (otherwise, a command running for all projects `./gradlew -Ppublishing  publishToMavenLocal` is needed)

Special cases:

> * [Dataflow Legacy runner] If Dataflow Legacy runner worker harness has changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you're using the standard Dataflow runner (not Runner v2), and the worker harness has changed, do the following:
```

  1. Compile the dataflowWorkerJar
    ```
    ./gradlew :runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:worker:shadowJar
    ```
    The jar is located in the build output

>   2. Pass the pipelineOption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Use the following command to pass `pipelineOption`:
```

Unit tests have filename `**_test.py`; integration tests have filename `**_it_test.py`.

* Running all tests in a file

```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py
```

* Running all tests in a class

```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py::TextSourceTest
```

* Run a specific test
```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py::TextSourceTest::test_progress
```

## Run an integration test

* On Direct Runner:

```shell
python -m pytest -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDirectRunner’
```

3. If you are preparing a PR, add tests paths [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/2012107a0fa2bb3fedf1b5aedcb49445534b2dad/sdks/python/test-suites/direct/common.gradle#L44) for test-suites to run it in PostCommit Python.

* On DataFlow Runner
  1. First build the SDK tarball
  ```
  cd sdks/python
  pip install build && python -m build –sdist
  ```

>   This will generates a tarball file in `sdks/python/sdist/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The tarball file is generated in the `sdks/python/sdist/` directory.
```

>   2. in `--test-pipeline-options`, specify the tarball file to `--sdk_location=dist/apache-beam-2.53.0.dev0.tar.gz`. Example full invocation command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Use the `--test-pipeline-options` parameter to specify the tarball file. Use the location `--sdk_location=dist/apache-beam-2.53.0.dev0.tar.gz`. The following example shows the complete command:
```

  ```shell
  python -m pytest -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDataflowRunner --project=<project>
                           --temp_location=gs://<bucket>/tmp
                           --sdk_location=dist/apache-beam-2.35.0.dev0.tar.gz
                           --region=us-central1’
  ```

>   3. If you are preparing a PR, use marker `@pytest.mark.it_postcommit` to include integration test in Python PostCommit test-suite's Dataflow task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. If you are preparing a PR, to include integration tests in the Python PostCommit test suite's Dataflow task, use the marker `@pytest.mark.it_postcommit`.
```

> ### Building containers for modified SDK code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build containers for modified SDK code

To build containers for modified SDK code, follow these steps.
```

> 1. Command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command:
```

  ```shell
  ./gradlew :sdks:python:container:py39:docker \
  -Pdocker-repository-root=<gcr.io/location> -Pdocker-tag=<tag>
  ```

> 2. Push containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Push the containers.
```

> 3. Specify location with `--sdk_container_image`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Specify the container location by using the `--sdk_container_image` option.
```

> Example invocation command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a complete command:
```

```shell
python -m pytest  -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDataflowRunner --project=<project>
                           --temp_location=gs://<bucket>/tmp
                           --sdk_container_image=us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk/beam:dev
                           --region=us-central1’
```

> ### Specifying additional test dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Specify additional test dependencies

This section explains how to specify additional test dependencies.
```

> Option 1: Use the --requirements_file flag, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Option 1: Use the `--requirements_file` options. The following example demonstrates how to use this option:
```

```shell
python -m pytest  -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDataflowRunner --project=<project>
                           --temp_location=gs://<bucket>/tmp
                           --sdk_location=us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk/beam:dev
                           --region=us-central1
                           –requirements_file=requirements.txt’
```

> Option 2: (for Dataflow runner) Use [custom containers](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/using-custom-containers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Option 2: If you're using the Dataflow runner, use [custom containers](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/using-custom-containers).
```

> Custom container can be based on official Beam SDK container image (See Appendix for url)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You base base the custom container on the [official Beam SDK container image](https://gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk).
```

## Run your pipeline with modified beam code

> 1. Firstly, build Beam SDK tarball as instructed above (under `sdks/python`, run `python -m build –sdist` )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run your pipeline with modified beam code, follow these steps:

1. Build the Beam SDK tarball as described previously (under `sdks/python`, run `python -m build –sdist`).
```

> 2. Install the Beam SDK under your Python virtual environment with necessary extensions (e.g. `pip install /path/to/apache-beam.tar.gz[gcp]`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the Beam SDK in your Python virtual environment with the necessary extensions, for example `pip install /path/to/apache-beam.tar.gz[gcp]`.
```

> 3. Initiate your Python script running the Pipeline with command like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Initiate your Python script, running the Pipeline with command similar to the following example:
```

  ```shell
  python my_pipeline.py --runner=DataflowRunner --sdk_location=/path/to/apache-beam.tar.gz --project=my_project --region=us-central1 --temp_location=gs://my-bucket/temp ...
  ```

> Tips for Dataflow runner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tips for using the Dataflow runner:
```

> * Python worker will install the provided Apache Beam SDK before processing work items, so usually no need to provide custom worker container unless your GCP VM does not have Internet access and transient dependencies are changed from the officially released container images. In this case, refer to "Building containers for modified SDK code" instruction above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Python worker installs the Apache Beam SDK before processing work items. Therefore, you don't usually need to provide a custom worker container. If your Google Cloud VM doesn't have Internet access and transient dependencies are changed from the officially released container images, you do need to provide a custom worker container. In this case, see the section "Build containers for modified SDK code."
```

> * Installing Beam Python SDK from source is known to be slow (3.5 min for `n1-standard-1` machine). Alternatively, if the host machine is amd64 architecture, one can build a wheel (instead of a tarball) with command with command (e.g. `./gradle :sdks:python:bdistPy311linux` for Python 3.11) and pass the built wheel to `--sdk_location`. The installation should then just take seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installing the Beam Python SDK from source can be slow (3.5 minutes for  a`n1-standard-1` machine). As an alternative, if the host machine uses amd64 architecture, you can build a wheel instead of a tarball by using a command similar to `./gradle :sdks:python:bdistPy311linux` (for Python 3.11). Pass the built wheel using the `--sdk_location` option. That installation completes in seconds.
```

### Caveat - `save_main_session`

> * `NameError` when running DoFn on remote runner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `NameError` when running `DoFn` on remote runner
```

<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

This guide is for Beam users and developers changing and testing Beam code.
Specifically, this guide provides information about:

1. Testing code changes locally

> 2. Building Beam artifacts with modified Beam code and using it for pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Building Beam artifacts with modified Beam code and using the modified code for pipelines
```

I realized that in this line, I'm not sure what "it" refers to: Beam artifacts or modified code.

# Repository structure

> The Apache Beam GitHub repository (Beam repo) is pretty much a "mono repo",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Apache Beam GitHub repository (Beam repo) is, for the most part, a "mono repo":
```

> containing everything in the Beam project, including the SDK, test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it contains everything in the Beam project, including the SDK, test
```

infrastructure, dashboards, the [Beam website](https://beam.apache.org),
the [Beam Playground](https://play.beam.apache.org), and so on.

## Gradle quick start

The Beam repo is a single Gradle project that contains all components, including Python,

> Go, the website, etc. It is useful to familiarize yourself with the concept of Gradle project structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go, the website, etc. It is useful to familiarize yourself with the Gradle project structure:
```

https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/multi_project_builds.html

> ### Gradle key concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Gradle key concepts

Grade uses the following key concepts:
```

> * project: folder with build.gradle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **project**: a folder that contains the `build.gradle` file
```

> * task: defined in build.gradle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **task**: an action defined in the `build.gradle` file
```

> * plugin: run in project build.gradle, pre-defined tasks and hierarchies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **plugin**: runs in the project's `build.gradle` and contains predefined tasks and hierarchies
```

For example, common tasks for a Java project or subproject include:

> - compileJava

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `compileJava`
```

> - compileTestJava

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `compileTestJava`
```

> - test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `test`
```

> - integrationTest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `integrationTest`
```

> To run a Gradle task, the command is `./gradlew -p <project path> <task>` or equivalently, `./gradlew :project:path:task_name`. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a Gradle task, the command is `./gradlew -p <project path> <task>` or `./gradlew :project:path:task_name`. For example:
```

```
./gradlew -p sdks/java/core compileJava

./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test
```

### Gradle project configuration: Beam specific

* A **huge** plugin `buildSrc/src/main/groovy/org/apache/beam/gradle/BeamModulePlugin` manages everything.

> Then, in each java project or subproject, the `build.gradle` file starts with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In each java project or subproject, the `build.gradle` file starts with:
```

```groovy

apply plugin: 'org.apache.beam.module'

applyJavaNature( ... )
```

Relevant usage of `BeamModulePlugin` includes:
* Manage Java dependencies

> * Configuring projects (Java, Python, Go, Proto, Docker, Grpc, Avro, an so on)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure projects (Java, Python, Go, Proto, Docker, Grpc, Avro, an so on)
```

>   * Java -> applyJavaNature; Python -> applyPythonNature, and so on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Java -> `applyJavaNature`; Python -> `applyPythonNature`, and so on
```

  * Define common custom tasks for each type of project
    * `test`: run Java unit tests
    * `spotlessApply`: format java code

## Code paths

The following are example code paths relevant for SDK development:

* `sdks/java` Java SDK
  * `sdks/java/core` Java core
  * `sdks/java/harness` SDK harness (entrypoint of SDK container)

* `runners` runner supports, written in Java. For example,
  * `runners/direct-java` Java direct runner
  * `runners/flink-java` Java Flink runner
  * `runners/google-cloud-dataflow-java` Dataflow runner (job submission, translation, etc)

>     * `runners/google-cloud-dataflow-java/`worker Worker on Dataflow legacy runner

Reviewer: I think there's a typo in this line (worker Worker), but I'm not sure what it's supposed to be.

Author: It should read `runners/google-cloud-dataflow-java/worker`, will fix

> * `sdks/python` contains setup file and scripts to trigger test-suites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `sdks/python` contains the setup file and scripts to trigger test-suites
```

  * `sdks/python/apache_beam` actual beam package
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/runners/worker` SDK worker harness entrypoint, state sampler

>     * `sdks/python/apache_beam/io` IO connectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/io` I/O connectors
```

    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/transforms` most "core" components
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/ml` Beam ML
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/runners` runner implementations and wrappers
    * ...

* `sdks/go` Go SDK

> * `.github/workflow` GitHub Action workflows (for example, tests run under PR). Most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `.github/workflow` GitHub action workflows (for example, tests run under PR). Most
```

  workflows run a single Gradle command. Check which command is running for
  a test so that you can run the same command locally during development.

## Environment setup

To set up local development environments, first see the [Contributing guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) .
If you plan to use Dataflow, see the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/quickstarts/create-pipeline-java) to setup `gcloud` credentials.

To check if your environment is set up, follow these steps:

Your `PATH` needs to have the following elements configured.

* A Java environment (any supported Java version, Java8 preferably as of 2024).
  * This environment is needed for all development, because Beam is a Gradle project that uses JVM.

>   * Recommended: Use [sdkman]((https://sdkman.io/install)) to manage Java versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Recommended: Use [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/install) to manage Java versions.
```

* A Python environment (any supported Python version)
  * Needed for Python SDK development

>   * Recommended: Use [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Recommended: Use [`pyenv`](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
```

## Console (shell) setup

To run tests by using the Gradle command line, in the command-line environment, run the following command:

```shell
$ cd beam
$ ./gradlew :examples:java:wordCount
```

When the command completes successfully, the following text appears in the Gradle build log:

```
...
BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 2m 32s
96 actionable tasks: 9 executed, 87 up-to-date
3:41:06 PM: Execution finished 'wordCount'.
```

In addition, the following text appears in the output file:

```shell

$ head /tmp/output.txt*
==> /tmp/output.txt-00000-of-00003 <==
should: 38
bites: 1
depraved: 1
gauntlet: 1
battle: 6
sith: 2
cools: 1
natures: 1
hedge: 1
words: 9

==> /tmp/output.txt-00001-of-00003 <==
elements: 1
Advise: 2
fearful: 2
towards: 4
ready: 8
pared: 1
left: 8
safe: 4
canst: 7
warrant: 2

==> /tmp/output.txt-00002-of-00003 <==
chanced: 1
...
```

*What does this command do?*

This command compiles the beam SDK and the WordCount pipeline, a Hello-world program for
data processing, then runs the pipeline on the Direct Runner.

## Run a unit test

This section explains how to run unit tests locally after you make a code change in the Java SDK (for example, in `sdks/java/io/jdbc`).

> Tests are under the `src/test/java` folder of each project. Unit tests have the filename `.../**Test.java`. Integration tests have the filename `.../**IT.java` for integration tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests are under the `src/test/java` folder of each project. Unit tests have the filename `.../**Test.java`. Integration tests have the filename `.../**IT.java`.
```

* To run all unit tests under a project, use the following command:
  ```
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test
  ```
  Find the  JUnit report in an HTML file in the file path `<invoked_project>/build/reports/tests/test/index.html`.

* To run a specific test, use the following commands:
  ```
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests org.apache.beam.fn.harness.CachesTest
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests *CachesTest
  ./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test --tests *CachesTest.testClearableCache
  ```

* To run tests using IntelliJ, click the ticks to run a whole test class or a specific test. You can set breakpoints to debug the test.
  <img width="452" alt="image" src="https://github.com/apache/beam/assets/8010435/7ae2a65c-a104-48a2-8bad-ff8c52dd1943">

* These steps don't apply to `sdks:java:core` tests. Instead, invoke the unit tests by using `:runners:direct-java:needsRunnerTest`. Java core doesn't depend on a runner. Therefore, unit tests that run a pipeline require the Direct Runner.

>   Reason: Java core does not depend on a runner. For unit test that executes a pipeline, it needs direct runner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To run integration tests, use the Direct Runner.

## Run integration tests (*IT.java)

Integration tests use [`TestPipeline`](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/java/core/src/main/java/org/apache/beam/sdk/testing/TestPipeline.java). Set options by using `TestPipelineOptions`.

Integration tests differ from standard pipelines in the following ways:
* By default, they block on run (on TestDataflowRunner).

> * They have default timeout of 15 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* They have a default timeout of 15 minutes.
```

* The pipeline options are set in the system property `beamTestPipelineOptions`.

> Note the final different, because you need to configure the test by setting `-DbeamTestPipelineOptions=[...]`. This property is where you set the runner to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the final difference, because you need to configure the test by setting `-DbeamTestPipelineOptions=[...]`. This property is where you set the runner to use.
```

The following example demonstrates how to run an integration test by using the command line. This example includes the options required to run the pipeline on the Dataflow runner:
```
-DbeamTestPipelineOptions='["--runner=TestDataflowRunner","--project=mygcpproject","--region=us-central1","--stagingLocation=gs://mygcsbucket/path"]'
```

### Write an integration test

> * To set up a `TestPipeline` object in an integration test, use the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up a `TestPipeline` object in an integration test, use the following code:
```

  ```java

  @Rule public TestPipeline pipelineWrite = TestPipeline.create();

  @Test
  public void testSomething() {
    pipeline.apply(...);

    pipeline.run().waitUntilFinish();
  }
  ```

> * The task that runs the test needs to specify the runner. The following examples demonstrate how to specify the runner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task that runs the test needs to specify the runner. The following examples demonstrate how to specify the runner:
```

  * To run a Google Cloud I/O integration test on the Direct Runner, use `:sdks:java:io:google-cloud-platform:integrationTest`
  * To run integration tests on the standard Dataflow runner, use `:runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:googleCloudPlatformLegacyWorkerIntegrationTest`
  * To run integration test on Dataflow runner v2, use `:runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:googleCloudPlatformRunnerV2IntegrationTest`

> To see how to run your workflow locally, refer to the Gradle command that the GHA workflow runs.

Reviewer: What does GHA stand for?

Author: GitHub Action, will add this abbrev at the first place it occurred

Example invocation:
```
./gradlew :runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:examplesJavaRunnerV2IntegrationTest \
-PdisableSpotlessCheck=true -PdisableCheckStyle=true -PskipCheckerFramework \
-PgcpProject=<your_gcp_project> -PgcpRegion=us-central1 \
-PgcsTempRoot=gs://<your_gcs_bucket>/tmp
```

## Run your pipeline with modified beam code

> To apple code changed to your pipeline, we recommend that you start with a separate branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apple code changes to your pipeline, we recommend that you start with a separate branch.
```

* If you're making a pull request or want to test a change with the dev branch, start from Beam HEAD ([master](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master)).

* If you're making a patch on released Beam (2._xx_.0), start from a tag (for example, [v2.55.0](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/v2.55.0)), then in the Beam repo, compile the project involving the code change with the following command. This example modifies `sdks/java/io/kafka`.

  ```
  ./gradlew -Ppublishing -p sdks/java/io/kafka publishToMavenLocal
  ```

>   By default, this command publishes the artifact with modified code to the  Maven Local repository (`~/.m2/repository`). The change is picked up when the user pipeline executes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, this command publishes the artifact with modified code to the Maven Local repository (`~/.m2/repository`). The change is picked up when the user pipeline runs.
```

  1. Use the following command to compile `dataflowWorkerJar`:
    ```
    ./gradlew :runners:google-cloud-dataflow-java:worker:shadowJar
    ```
    The jar is located in the build output.
  2. Use the following command to pass `pipelineOption`:
    ```
    --dataflowWorkerJar=/.../beam-runners-google-cloud-dataflow-java-legacy-worker-2.XX.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
    ```

* If you're using Dataflow Runner v2 and `sdks/java/harness` or its dependency (like `sdks/java/core`) have changed, do the following:
  1. Use the following command to build the SDK harness container:
    ```shell
    ./gradlew :sdks:java:container:java8:docker # java8, java11, java17, etc
  docker tag apache/beam_java8_sdk:2.49.0.dev \
    "us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam_java11_sdk:2.49.0-custom"  # change to your container registry
  docker push "us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam_java11_sdk:2.49.0-custom"
    ```
  2. Run the pipeline with the following options:
  ```
  --experiments=use_runner_v2 \
  --sdkContainerImage="us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam_java11_sdk:2.49.0-custom"
  ```

# Python guide

> The Beam Python SDK is distributed as a single wheel, which is more straightforward than the Java SDK. Python development is consequently more less complicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Beam Python SDK is distributed as a single wheel, which is more straightforward than the Java SDK. Python development is consequently less complicated.
```

## Console (shell) setup

These instructions explain how to configure your console. In this example, the working directory is set to `sdks/python`.

1. Recommended: Install the Python interpreter by using `pyenv`. Use the following commands:
  a. install prerequisites
  b. `curl https://pyenv.run | bash`

>   c. `pyenv install 3.X` (a supported Python version, refer to python_version in [project property](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/gradle.properties))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  c. `pyenv install 3.X` (a supported Python version, refer to python_version in [project property](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/gradle.properties)
```

2. Use the following commands to set up and activate the virtual environment:
  a. `pyenv virtualenv 3.X ENV_NAME`
  b. `pyenv activate ENV_NAME`
3. Install the `apache_beam` package in editable mode:
  `pip install -e .[gcp, test]`
4. For development that uses an SDK container image, do the following:
  a. Install Docker Desktop
  b. Install Go
5. If you're going to submit PRs, precommit the hook for Python code changes (nobody likes lint failures!!):
  ```shell
  # enable pre-commit
  (env) $ pip install pre-commit
  (env) $ pre-commit install

  # disable pre-commit
  (env) $ pre-commit uninstall
  ```

## Run a unit test

> **Note** Although the tests can be triggered with a Gradle command (as what CI does), that method sets up a fresh `virtualenv` and installs dependencies before each run, which takes minutes. Therefore, it's useful to have a persistent `virtualenv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** Although the tests can be triggered with a Gradle command, that method sets up a fresh `virtualenv` and installs dependencies before each run, which takes minutes. Therefore, it's useful to have a persistent `virtualenv`.
```

Unit tests have the filename `**_test.py`. Integration tests have the filename `**_it_test.py`.

* To run all tests in a file, use the following command:

```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py
```

* To run all tests in a class, use the following command:

```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py::TextSourceTest
```

* To run a specific test, use the following command:
```shell
pytest -v  apache_beam/io/textio_test.py::TextSourceTest::test_progress
```

## Run an integration test

To run an integration test on the Direct Runner, use the following command:

```shell
python -m pytest -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDirectRunner’
```

> If you are preparing a PR, add tests paths [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/2012107a0fa2bb3fedf1b5aedcb49445534b2dad/sdks/python/test-suites/direct/common.gradle#L44) for test-suites to run it in PostCommit Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are preparing a PR, add tests paths [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/2012107a0fa2bb3fedf1b5aedcb49445534b2dad/sdks/python/test-suites/direct/common.gradle#L44) for test-suites to run in PostCommit Python.
```

  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDataflowRunner --project=<project>
                           --temp_location=gs://<bucket>/tmp
                           --sdk_container_image=us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk/beam:dev
                           --region=us-central1’
```

### Specify additional test dependencies

This section explains how to specify additional test dependencies.

Option 1: Use the `--requirements_file` options. The following example demonstrates how to use this option:

```shell
python -m pytest  -o log_cli=True -o log_level=Info \
  apache_beam/ml/inference/pytorch_inference_it_test.py::PyTorchInference \
  --test-pipeline-options='--runner=TestDataflowRunner --project=<project>
                           --temp_location=gs://<bucket>/tmp
                           --sdk_location=us.gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk/beam:dev
                           --region=us-central1
                           –requirements_file=requirements.txt’
```

Option 2: If you're using the Dataflow runner, use [custom containers](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/using-custom-containers).

> It is convenient to use [official Beam SDK container image](https://gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk) as base then apply your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is convenient to use the [official Beam SDK container image](https://gcr.io/apache-beam-testing/beam-sdk) as a base and then apply your changes.
```

## Run your pipeline with modified beam code

To run your pipeline with modified beam code, follow these steps:

1. Build the Beam SDK tarball as described previously (under `sdks/python`, run `python -m build –sdist`).

2. Install the Beam SDK in your Python virtual environment with the necessary extensions, for example `pip install /path/to/apache-beam.tar.gz[gcp]`.

> 3. Initiate your Python script, running the Pipeline with command similar to the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Initiate your Python script. To run your pipeline, use a command similar to the following example:
```

  ```shell
  python my_pipeline.py --runner=DataflowRunner --sdk_location=/path/to/apache-beam.tar.gz --project=my_project --region=us-central1 --temp_location=gs://my-bucket/temp ...
  ```

Tips for using the Dataflow runner:

> * The Python worker installs the Apache Beam SDK before processing work items. Therefore, you don't usually need to provide a custom worker container. If your Google Cloud VM doesn't have Internet access and transient dependencies are changed from the officially released container images, you do need to provide a custom worker container. In this case, see the section "Build containers for modified SDK code."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Python worker installs the Apache Beam SDK before processing work items. Therefore, you don't usually need to provide a custom worker container. If your Google Cloud VM doesn't have internet access and transient dependencies are changed from the officially released container images, you do need to provide a custom worker container. In this case, see the section "Build containers for modified SDK code."
```

- `compileJava`
- `compileTestJava`
- `test`
- `integrationTest`

To run a Gradle task, the command is `./gradlew -p <project path> <task>` or `./gradlew :project:path:task_name`. For example:

```
./gradlew -p sdks/java/core compileJava

./gradlew :sdks:java:harness:test
```

### Gradle project configuration: Beam specific

* A **huge** plugin `buildSrc/src/main/groovy/org/apache/beam/gradle/BeamModulePlugin` manages everything.

In each java project or subproject, the `build.gradle` file starts with:

```groovy

apply plugin: 'org.apache.beam.module'

applyJavaNature( ... )
```

Relevant usage of `BeamModulePlugin` includes:
* Manage Java dependencies
* Configure projects (Java, Python, Go, Proto, Docker, Grpc, Avro, an so on)
  * Java -> `applyJavaNature`; Python -> `applyPythonNature`, and so on
  * Define common custom tasks for each type of project
    * `test`: run Java unit tests
    * `spotlessApply`: format java code

## Code paths

The following are example code paths relevant for SDK development:

* `sdks/java` Java SDK
  * `sdks/java/core` Java core
  * `sdks/java/harness` SDK harness (entrypoint of SDK container)

> * `runners` runner supports, written in Java. For example,

Reviewer 2: These are only relevant for Java. It might make sense to state that for everything but Java, all relevant files are in sdks/LANG, whereas for Java the code is split up more widely.

Author: Added this information to code path:

"Java code paths are mainly found in two directories:" ...

"For SDKS in other language, all relevant files are in `sdks/LANG`, for example," ...

    * `runners/google-cloud-dataflow-java/worker` Worker on Dataflow legacy runner

* `sdks/python` contains the setup file and scripts to trigger test-suites
  * `sdks/python/apache_beam` actual beam package
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/runners/worker` SDK worker harness entrypoint, state sampler
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/io` I/O connectors
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/transforms` most "core" components
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/ml` Beam ML
    * `sdks/python/apache_beam/runners` runner implementations and wrappers
    * ...

* `sdks/go` Go SDK

* `.github/workflow` GitHub action workflows (for example, tests run under PR). Most
  workflows run a single Gradle command. Check which command is running for
  a test so that you can run the same command locally during development.

## Environment setup

To set up local development environments, first see the [Contributing guide](../CONTRIBUTING.md) .
If you plan to use Dataflow, see the [Google Cloud documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/quickstarts/create-pipeline-java) to setup `gcloud` credentials.

To check if your environment is set up, follow these steps:

> Your `PATH` needs to have the following elements configured.

Reviewer 2: These are not needed for all development, e.g. one can do much Go/Python development without java installed, and vice versa.

Author: Clarified to "Depending on the languages involved, your `PATH` needs to have ..." and for each item below there is a comment about when it is needed

* A Java environment (any supported Java version, Java8 preferably as of 2024).
  * This environment is needed for all development, because Beam is a Gradle project that uses JVM.
  * Recommended: Use [sdkman](https://sdkman.io/install) to manage Java versions.
* A Python environment (any supported Python version)
  * Needed for Python SDK development
  * Recommended: Use [`pyenv`](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv) and
    a [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to manage Python versions.
* A Go environment. Install the latest Go version.
  * Needed for Go SDK development and SDK container change (for all SDKs), because
  the container entrypoint scripts are written in Go.

> * A Docker environment.

Reviewer 2: You don't need docker (and, consequently, go) for cross-language anymore.

Author: yeah, I noted "some cross-language functionality (if you run a SDK container image)". To clarify further, added note "not required since Beam 2.53.0")
